[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory today we're going to be
talking all about the things that every
entrepreneur needs to know now if you're
even remotely considering building a
business you're going to want to watch
this thing all the way through because
i've made virtually every mistake that
you can make and my hope is that by
watching this video you can learn with
ease what i have learned with tremendous
difficulty pain and suffering all right
first question what is the first step to
getting started in business once you
have an idea what next and how do you
avoid being stuck in analysis paralysis
okay so
first the first step in starting a
business is always and forever
what is the problem that you're trying
to solve
product market fit is everything you
don't want to sell something that people
don't think they want you want to be in
a position not of changing behavior but
of leveraging it what are people already
doing what is a need that they already
know that they have
then the game just becomes awareness
you're just needing to make them aware
that your product exists and you're in
the business of getting people to try it
and if there is a known problem and your
solution is actually awesome
and
the holy grail of holy grails that there
is some part of that value chain that
you can give away for free so that
people can try it and see for themselves
that oh my god
this is actually better than everything
else and that's the hard part people
want to think that there's a business
trick that they can learn and that
they're going to be able to build this
massive success the reality is
every successful business was better at
something that mattered
than everybody else
you need to get very comfortable with
that that's why i am so glad that there
was no social media when i began there
was no way for me to get in front of a
camera and try to build hype or persona
i had to build a [__] product and
nobody cared who i was nobody even knew
who i was in the beginning
so i had to focus on what is the problem
i'm here to solve how do i solve it
better than anybody else let me get this
product in people's hands get them to
try it and then knowing that trying my
product was the best marketing ever
because we made sure that the product
itself was awesome
now when you do that now you've really
got something and if you don't have that
then don't start a business because it
is going to be way too difficult you
don't want to end up chasing your tail
you don't want to end up trying to
create a market or get people to behave
in a new way which will finally make
your product make sense
you want to hone in on an area that is
underserved a need is not being met with
a customer that you completely
understand with a product that is better
than everybody else that's the goal now
once you have that idea and you're like
this is it i know this is the one boom
now we're gonna go to social media
social media is going to give you the
ability to get people to know about your
product to add value to people's lives
before you try to extract that value and
that's how we're going to start getting
that word of mouth so that we can give
that product away because remember
that's our goal we want to create
something we can give some part away it
could be a freemium model where we're
giving some small part away then we want
you to upgrade or if you're lucky like i
was at quest and it's a product people
actually eat and so even if you give
them one you know that if they like it
they're gonna need another one the next
day and the next day and so on and so
forth and so people are coming back and
now like with impact theory where
85 90 of the content that i create i
give away for free and by doing that and
changing somebody's life with the free
content then i'm like now imagine
that you get into one of the paid pieces
of content people
make the leap that whoa if the free
stuff is this valuable then the paid
stuff ought to be even more valuable and
since we give a money-back guarantee you
have nothing to lose and so that's been
a tremendous win for us is
by putting out all of that free content
over years building that reputation
impacting people's lives becomes very
easy then to get them
into the paid offerings now how do you
avoid analysis paralysis
by having a rule
that you always and i mean always take
action
have a rule i think rules are one of the
most underestimated things people don't
deploy that nearly enough
and so in my life i give myself 72 hours
if i'm just not sure and i'm really
lamenting making a decision i don't know
like it's unclear i give myself 72 hours
to make a decision and then i make it
now i always protect my downside and i
never do anything that could be a
mortality event for the company i want
to make that abundantly clear
but assuming that i've hedged my
downside and assuming that even if it
fails catastrophically and even my
downside hedge doesn't stop this from
being an abject failure that i'm not
going out of business okay that's
critically important but within that i
give myself 72 hours and then i need to
take action now that doesn't mean that i
don't find small incremental ways to try
something to learn which is a huge part
of part of hedging my downside is how do
i stair step into this
how do i put a toe in and then a foot
and then up to my knee and then waist
and then all the way right and there is
usually a way to walk into that where
you're not you know biting off something
that's going to take you years and cost
millions of dollars before you'll even
know if it's going to work
so finding that incremental way to
figure something out and having that
rule in your life that you take action
plain and simple
and that's it solve that problem
get out there start telling people about
what you're about get that awareness
get people using the product and then
make sure that you take action that you
never allow yourself to just stand still
in fact i will say this running a
thousand miles an hour in the wrong
direction is far more beneficial than
standing still why because tom if you're
running a thousand miles an hour in the
wrong direction now you've got to go all
the way back to zero and then make
progress that's not how business works
first of all you're just running in a
direction it's not like it's the
opposite of the direction that you need
to go in and by moving you're learning
and that's the key because
failure so if you're going in the wrong
direction and you have failed failure is
the most information-rich data stream
that exists
the best way to learn is to try
failure triggers areas of your mind that
have to do with memory and attention so
even though it hurts it's incredibly
valuable
all right next question how do you
choose your market niche is it based on
opportunity or passion
now i will say for me the answer is both
i am totally uninterested in working in
an industry that i don't care about a
product that i'm not passionate about
for me that is an absolute must how do i
know because i spent almost a decade
chasing money and it was emotionally
grueling it is not fun in any way shape
or form and i promised myself that i
would never do it again so
my next company ironically ended up
being quest nutrition but quest was a
company that i said i'm only going to do
what i'm passionate about where i can
build community where i can be
authentically myself and where my
obsessive focus isn't profit it's adding
value to people's lives and that built
a billion dollar business
but it built that billion dollar
business because we solved a problem in
the marketplace we were using social
media before anybody else we got the
product in people's hands that they
could try it for free and they knew that
they liked it
and then we were just constantly
iterating trying new things never
standing still now the way that we found
that niche was because we were all
passionate about nutrition
we were passionate about nutrition and
and this is very important this is not
universal for my partners i think they
thought of it very differently but for
me i was showing up every day fighting
for my mom and my sister they were both
morbidly obese and i wanted to create
food that they could choose based on
taste and it happened to be good for
them
and by doing that
by connecting to that
on a friday night at 2am when i'm under
a piece of equipment with bloody
knuckles while my friends are out at the
club
i could remember what i was there
fighting for and it wasn't money because
money
is not going to give you the level of
enthusiasm that you may think it will
over time it did for a while but like
over time it's just really a brutal way
to try to keep yourself motivated
because even money it's like you want to
buy something for some reason right is
it to just show off which is a very weak
motivator is it to provide a better life
for your children way
more powerful motivator because then
it's about your kids and for me it
wasn't about the money
that doesn't mean that i don't think
money is powerful i think it's
extraordinarily powerful but i was
attached emotionally to helping my mom
and my sister and so
that was a very
conscious choice it was a process that i
walked through to reinforce that bond
and then from there i built a business
but i wasn't blind to the fact that
there was an opportunity so specifically
my partners and i were looking for the
intersection of passion and opportunity
and that's what i would encourage all of
you to do there is no reason you have to
settle for one or the other you can have
both
all right next
what is the biggest needle mover for
moving your business forward in your
experience what can i do if i feel like
my startup is not moving fast enough
okay
whenever you're trying to build a
business
you are
saying i'm here i have a goal that's
there your goal needs to be hyper
specific
between me and my goal is an obstacle
and i need to get past that obstacle now
to get past that obstacle you're looking
for what tim ferriss calls the lead
domino i think this is a brilliant
concept you're looking for that thing
that you can do first that if you do
that
that's going to have the biggest
knock-on effect in terms of making other
things easier so at impact theory i'm
trying to build the next disney my lead
domino was social media my set so the
reason i wanted that was i needed people
to know who i was so that i could
attract talent so that i could go
get doors open for me in hollywood
because people had seen my content and i
knew that that was going to be a chain
that worked for me because
that is one of the talents that i've
just put a lot of time and energy into
is the ability to articulate ideas for
people so
i just had a feeling that i'd be able to
build a big social ecosystem it just
worked out exactly like that and because
of that i've been able to get meetings
and open doors that i never would have
been able to do before now the second
lead domino is
video content being competent at
creating visual content because if we're
going to be the next disney we know that
we're going to be dealing in
film tv video games
storytelling books comics all of that
okay so all right cool so if i know that
that's what i'm going to have to do what
are those areas of core competency one
was going to be video content another
was going to be comic books those are
the first that we attacked for several
other reasons but
identifying what your core competencies
are going to need to be and that if i
were to get those core competencies they
would necessarily make it easier for me
to do other things okay that's what you
want to identify now once you have that
you're going to run something that i
call the physics of progress and i
actually teach a whole class on this
in impact theory university in something
called business decision making so if
you guys have a business already and
you're looking to scale it go check out
business decision making we go into into
a lot of depth on this but the idea is
as follows
there is a an actual nature
to progress there is a way that it works
now the reason i call it the physics of
progress is because it's getting down to
first principles thinking now what first
principle is thinking is you're no
longer reasoning by analogy okay we're
not saying this is something that's like
this we're saying this is it this is the
thing this is how it works so take the
human experience for instance the human
experience the first principles way to
view it is that
humans are the result of evolution and
when you understand how evolution shape
the brain and the body and how they're
in communication now the human animal
suddenly becomes a lot less mysterious
and you don't have to wonder where that
negative voice is coming from or why
you're so ambitious why you're afraid of
public speaking all of those things
you could understand from a first
principal's perspective of understanding
how evolution shaped us in business
there are very similar physics right
you're trying to sell something for more
than it costs you to make it to scale
you're going to have to have employees
employees or humans and they have all
kinds of what dan ariely calls
predictable
they're predictably irrational so
looking at all of that understanding how
markets move understanding how marketing
works understanding the tools you're
going to use in your business
understanding business structure when
you understand all of those things now
you can think from first principles when
we talk about making progress there are
very simple steps that you have to do
and it's basically the scientific method
recontextualized for business and it
goes like this
i'm here my goal is there i've
identified the obstacle the impediment
that stands between me and my goal and a
way that i like to ask it is why if i
just keep doing what i'm doing now why
won't i automatically get to my goal
and
one of the most important things to
understand is the second law of
thermodynamics which applies
aggressively to business which states
that any closed system move toward moves
towards entropy meaning
that
if you don't have energy coming into a
system everything goes towards chaos
right your room becomes messy um the
fire burns out like or the forest fire
[__] rages across everything
everything moves towards chaos and the
only way to organize something to
structure it to get it to work in a
specific way is to pump energy into that
system right to get a plant to grow you
must bombard it with photons basically
radiation from the sun right so for a
human to grow you have to eat sustenance
and so we're literally
translating the energy from the sun into
food to create this body which we then
have agency and can do things and one of
those things that we're going to do in a
business context is figure out where do
we have to apply energy to make sure
that we overcome whatever obstacle
stands between us and our goal so you
identify that obstacle then you're going
to come up with
your best hypothesis so it's just a best
guess on what you would need to do to
most effectively overcome that obstacle
what's that lead domino what's the thing
that if i do that
it's going to move me most meaningfully
towards my goal
then once you have that best guess and
it is just a guess
then you're going to actually formulate
and run an experiment
it's going to be something that you can
do
it's not something that you think about
so for instance let's say
that
i know that i want to grow my youtube
channel and let's say i want to buy
december 31st i want to have a million
views per day by december 31st 2021 on
youtube okay cool so now what's the best
thing that i could do in order to get
there i might have a couple ideas um
maybe i need to bring on better guests
that have bigger reach or maybe it's my
thumbnail and uh my copy okay now as it
turns out our hypothesis was uh both of
those were important but believe it or
not that the thing that's most important
because you can have the right guess but
if you have the wrong thumbnail and
headline you're in real trouble
now if you have all the right thumbnails
and headlines with the wrong guess
you're also in trouble but the lead
domino is getting that thumbnail and
headline right making sure that you're
feeding the algorithm so that the
youtube algorithm supports your content
then you've got an opportunity to get
the right guest in front of more people
and then when the two synergistically
happen it it explodes but just to stick
with one of the things we actually ran
was this thumbnail in headline okay so
we had all the different experiments
that we wanted to run we picked the one
that we thought was the most likely to
move us forward using something that's
known as the ice method i-c-e so impact
confidence and ease what's the impact if
it works what's my confidence that it
will work and how easy will this be to
implement so we came up with those
different things we were going to test
on the thumbnail those become the
experiments the levers as i call them
that we're going to pull we're actually
going to pull that lever meaning put
that new approach the thumbnails and
headlines out into the world then we're
going to get a result from the real
world and we're going to analyze that
data
then we're going to have learned
something once we learn something we
will refine our hypothesis and begin the
process again
and that loop is the physics of progress
okay let me walk you through that one
more time
i know i have a problem i come up with a
hypothesis on the most efficient way to
solve that problem i come up with a way
to test that hypothesis a thing i'm
going to do
in this case put out new headlines and
thumbnails and then i'm going to see
what the result is from the real world
in this case it worked tremendously well
we tried many many things many of them
failed but many of them worked that was
the data that we analyzed that refined
our
approach in terms of what thumbnail and
headline changes we wanted to make and
we did that over and over and over and
over and in doing that we have more than
doubled our view count over the testing
period okay that's a massive win for us
and just came from running the physics
of progress over and over and over and
it doesn't matter what area of your
business hey guests what kind of guests
should we have on here's my best guess
so we should go into xyz space uh okay
that didn't work we should try this
space and then the one that's really
popping off for us right now and of
course this will change over time but
cryptocurrency nfts that's there's so
much energy pouring into that space
right now doing a lot of content there
because i happen to have a passion for
it and i'm researching the [__] out of
it so we try doing that content marry
that with the changes and boom it
literally the graph on our youtube page
looks like uh it's almost a straight
line up it's ridiculous but it was all
the work that we did over here as we're
learning learning learning learning
learning and then it's like we finally
begin to optimize and it goes up and to
the right but first you have to run all
those tests fail over and over and over
but as i mentioned failure
is the most information-rich data stream
that exists so in all those little
failures we were learning refining our
approach which allowed us to get better
which then ultimately gave us the
results
all right
that's how you get things moving faster
the physics of progress
all right next do you think buying a
small business is a good idea how would
you go about it all right this is not
something that i can explain in the
abstract i would have to know a lot of
details about the specific business that
you want to buy because of course a
certain business at a certain price
would be a no-brainer purchase but then
another business at a different price or
even the same business at the wrong
price could be a problem so you have to
be very very thoughtful now
if you're going to buy a business you
need to be aware that purchases often
fail it's some ridiculous percentage
like 95
that is directionally accurate
something approaching 95 of all
acquisitions fail because
when you're trying to merge things it
can be very difficult the founder that
created the business almost certainly
will have a radically different idea of
how to run the business that's why
you're buying it right you think you can
do it better a radically different idea
of the culture
may have hired people that you would
never hire in a million years and
remember all the company is
is the people and the product
so if you don't have the right people or
the right product
what do you really have and it could
become very very problematic and the
number of times i cannot tell you how
often i hear this refrain
hey we did our due diligence
but we didn't realize xyz thing about
the company until we bought it and got
in it and then all of a sudden whoa like
now we're seeing the real problems
so especially because we're talking
about small businesses i would be very
careful because you're probably better
off building it yourself
starting from scratch especially if you
have the capital to buy a business
you've probably got the capital to grow
the business it's going to take more
time but a you're going to learn more
you're not going to inherit
bad good or indifferent but you're not
going to going to inherit anything from
the other people the sort of legacy
things that normally make the purchase
such a high risk endeavor
and you're going to be able to get in
there and learn as you grow the business
and starting off
you know in the beginning when there's
not a lot of attention there's not a lot
of stakes that is a really important
period as you begin to learn and so at
quest for instance we were making the
bars by hand before we ended up buying a
bunch of equipment that showed us that
there was a product a product market fit
that our marketing was working then once
we had that going and we had a lot more
confidence then we could buy the
equipment if we had just come in and
bought a business that already had the
equipment already had all the overhead
already had all the employees already
had all the different vendors lined up
and all that while it seems in the
beginning that it gives you that head
start and trust me there were some
headaches with finding my protein
vendors and things like that that i
really wish that we hadn't had to deal
with
we wouldn't have gotten in there built
the relationships met the people that we
needed to learn the things that we
otherwise would have just been
inheriting ideas which can put blinders
on you
so it was very useful for us to have to
build that stuff from the ground up
now we often joked if we had realized
that the light at the end of the tunnel
was actually an oncoming train we
wouldn't have gotten into it because of
course there were complexities that we
never could have imagined
but that feels a lot less like burning
the ships at the shore now i know
because of my hardcore intensity
everybody thinks that i'm a burn the
ship's the shore guy but i'm not i'm the
hedge your downside guy
make sure that you have an exit strategy
should things implode make sure that
it's not going to take your life down
because you should be committed to this
so you shouldn't need
the fact that there's all this stress
and pressure on you to succeed in order
to succeed and i think it just makes
people make short-term decisions and you
definitely want to think long term
all right
how do you build resilience
in becoming an entrepreneur
i was just explaining this to a couple
of my employees today have you ever
stubbed your toe really hard and it's
that like blinding pain and you're like
oh god did i just break my toe
now i don't know if you've ever thought
this but every time that happens i think
thank god i didn't know i was about to
do that because oh my god that was so
painful
and i wonder
knowing what i know now
could i kick that thing on purpose as
hard as i did
and i don't know that i could knowing
how painful it is man there would have
to be something really important for me
to be able to do that
running a business is a little like this
you come up with a plan
you have to generate certainty around
that plan because you have to intoxicate
other people with certainty
you're gonna have to convince them to
run with you at a thousand miles an hour
in the direction that you think is right
in order to create enough momentum to
get something really happening in your
business most businesses never hit
escape velocity which is why most
businesses never reach a million dollars
getting that early momentum is
extraordinarily difficult
extraordinarily difficult so you've got
to get people hyped up you've got to
believe you've got to lead with all of
this energy and enthusiasm and get going
and get moving hardcore
but in the back of your mind
you know one immutable truth
at some point
i'm going to fall flat on my face
because some part of my strategy isn't
right i know that the only thing i can
guarantee about any business plan
anybody has ever had throughout all of
history is that some part of it is wrong
and you're going to have to adjust
adjust adjust to just adjust as you go
okay back in 1961 if you got on the s p
500 you were going to stay there for an
average of 61 years as of 2021 it's
approaching 12 years okay the time that
success buys you now is getting really
small because the world is changing so
fast the internet has changed everything
nfts are going to change it even more
the pace of change is insane
so even if it's just that your thing
might be right today but it's definitely
not gonna be right six months from now
or a year from now
so you're going to wallop on your face
you are going to stub that toe and you
have to do all of it knowing how badly
it's going to hurt
so how do we build resilience in
business
the same way that we build resilience
anywhere
beliefs
about us and how the world works that
reinforce that we're going to need to be
hardcore we're going to have to value
resiliency we have to reward it in
ourselves we have to think well of it in
other people we've got to really believe
that being resilient matters and we have
to find ways to cultivate that in
ourselves and then three we're gonna do
hard [__]
so if you wanna gain resiliency do hard
things
work out every day
take a cold shower
don't eat the food that you wanna eat be
very strict on your diet go to bed on
time don't go clubbing when everybody
else is doing it live a disciplined life
that has
rules
put rules in your life here's an easy
one tom bilyeu gets out of bed in 10
minutes or less
no matter what
here's another one
monday through friday if i'm awake i'm
either working or working out
i work an average of 93 hours a week
and i've maintained that pace for
almost 20 years
i don't burn out largely because of what
i talked about before where i make sure
that i'm combining opportunity and
passion
but also because i built resiliency by
doing hard things over and over and over
and i value that in myself
so i reward myself when i do it i think
well of other people when they do it i
talk about it like coming on here and
talking about all this stuff
and i started small
i started small
and i got wins
and i started pushing it out and i held
myself accountable when i didn't do it i
actually confess to my wife and
frequently on camera if i fail to get
out of bed in 10 minutes or less
if i'm not being efficient during my
work day i'll tell myself
i'll call myself out i'll tell other
people i'll admit it to my wife to my
employees
because i want the sting of that
because i value
resilience i value following those rules
i value the beliefs that i have that
propel me towards success
and arguably
my most important rule
i only do and believe that which moves
me towards my goals
so i know i have to be resilient because
that's going to be the thing that moves
me towards my goals and i make it a rule
and i practice it with things big and
small whether it's taking a cold shower
and getting out of bed or whether it's
facing the hardest problems in my
business square on never trying to hide
from them dealing with it getting it
done owning my mistakes publicly
admitting when i'm wrong which i have no
problem doing
all because it lives in service of my
goal which i am passionate about
and once you have a goal that is
honorable
and exciting
now you've really got something and that
my friends is how you build resilience
in business
all right everybody that's it those are
the things every entrepreneur should
know and of course there is so much more
and if you want more like i said i teach
we have impact theory university which
has some business in it then we have
business decision making business
decision making is for people with a six
figure or higher business impact theory
university is for people that are
thinking about starting a business so
depending on which camp you fall into
please join me i think these classes are
absolutely
life-changing
without question
so come and join me if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care peace